NEW: Queued job automatic retries. (#467)
silverstripe-australia/silverstripe-queuedjobs: docs/en/08_troubleshooting.md

* `max_retry_attempts` - number of retry attempts, this allows to control how many times a broken job is retried
* `initial_retry_delay` - minimal waiting time before the retry attempt is executed, this helps spread retry attempts apart from each other

This configuration is applied to your job class.

### Advanced configuration

In case you have specific scenarios that can't be quite covered by basic configuration you can use the advanced configuration which provides more control over the automated job retries.

Use the sample configuration below as a starting point and adjust as needed.
This code snippet need to be placed into your job class.

* `retry_falloff_multiplier` provides the capability to increase the retry period with each retry attempt, defaults to `1`
* `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`, needs to be always lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`, this allows you to break up clusters of broken jobs which can prevent load spikes and DB deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`

**Examples**

```php
// Linear retry pattern

> private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;

Reviewer: FYI I suspect the thing causing docs linting to fail is syntax failure here - since these aren't in a class, they're not valid syntax (you can't have a private static variable in the global scope).

If you wrap it in a class I think it'll pass, e.g
```php
namespace App\Jobs;

use Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob;

class MyJob extends AbstractQueuedJob
{
    // the examples all go here
    // ...
}
```

Note that the `// ...` should be kept - we use that in a lot of the dev docs as a shorthand for "there's more to the class it's just not relevant for this code snippet"

Author: Thanks for the guidance, I was about to ask about this 😇

This restriction is a security feature coming with Plesk 10.
On round about page 150 of the plesk Administrator Guide you will find a solution to enable scheduled tasks which use the command line. (But the latest Guide for 10.3.1 mentions `/usr/local/psa/admin/bin/server_pref -u -crontab-secure-shell "/bin/sh"` although "server_pref" doesnt exit.
Since we are using a dedicated server for only one customer, we defined the crons under "Server Management"->"Tools & Utilities"->"Scheduled Tasks"->"root". The security restrictions of plesk are not involved then.

## Stuck jobs

> 

Reviewer: Somewhere in this section please define what a "stuck" job is - presumably it's related to job statuses, e.g. broken jobs?

> Sometimes, jobs break without having any issues with their implementation but rather an external factor is the root cause, for example database table lock may prevent a DB write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, jobs break without having any issues with their implementation but rather an external factor is the root cause, for example a database table lock may prevent a database write.
```

> Most common scenario is "publish" action related jobs such as scheduled publish feature which may experience DB deadlocks on the versioned table as this can be frequently accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common example is a scheduled "publish" feature which may experience database deadlocks on the versioned table as this can be frequently accessed.
```

> Most common scenario is "publish" action related jobs such as scheduled publish feature which may experience DB deadlocks on the versioned table as this can be frequently accessed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Most common scenario is "publish" action related jobs such as scheduled publish feature which may experience DB deadlocks on the versioned table as this can be frequently accessed.
```
Suggesting this separately to the wording changes above because GitHub diffs are garbage as soon as whitespace is introduced :sweat_smile:

In other cases, a job can get paused by a queue runner due to lack of server resources at a particular time.
Paused jobs can usually be safely resumed, continuing from the last completed step at a later time.

For these scenarios it's recommended to configure automatic job retries.

> Configuration has some flexibility on number of retries and the timing of the retry attempts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration includes defining the number of retries and the timing of the retry attempts.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> [!NOTE]
> The examples below set the configuration in PHP code, but like all configuration properties you can set this configuration in YAML if you need to - for example to retry jobs provided in a module.

```

### Basic configuration

This configuration is recommended as a good starting point when trying to set up automatic retries.

> - `max_retry_attempts` - number of retry attempts, this allows to control how many times a stuck job is retried

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `max_retry_attempts` - number of retry attempts. This allows control over how many times a stuck job is retried
```

> - `initial_retry_delay` - minimal waiting time in seconds before the retry attempt is executed, this helps spread retry attempts apart from each other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`AbstractQueuedJob.max_retry_attempts`](api:Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob->max_retry_attempts) - number of retry attempts, this allows to control how many times a stuck job is retried
- [`AbstractQueuedJob.initial_retry_delay`](api:Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob->initial_retry_delay) - minimal waiting time in seconds before the retry attempt is executed, this helps spread retry attempts apart from each other
```

The link won't work in GitHub but links to the API docs when viewed in https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/optional_features/queuedjobs/troubleshooting/

Prefixing the configuration property with the name of the class that defines it is standard practice for Silverstripe CMS docs and gives an immediate clue as to its usage.

> - `initial_retry_delay` - minimal waiting time in seconds before the retry attempt is executed, this helps spread retry attempts apart from each other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `initial_retry_delay` - the minimum waiting time in seconds between each retry attempt.
```

>  This helps spread retry attempts apart from each other

I think the fact that it's time between each attempt makes this clear so we probably don't need to reiterate it

> This configuration is applied to your job class.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
This configuration is applied to your job class. For example to retry 4 times, with 10 minutes between each retry:

```php
namespace App\Jobs;

use Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob;

class MyJob extends AbstractQueuedJob
{
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    // ...
}
```
````

In case you have specific scenarios that can't be quite covered by basic configuration you can use the advanced configuration which provides more control over the automated job retries.

Use the sample configuration below as a starting point and adjust as needed.

> This code snippet need to be placed into your job class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This code snippet needs to be placed into your job class.
```

- `retry_falloff_multiplier` provides the capability to increase the retry period with each retry attempt, defaults to `1`

> - `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`, needs to be always lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`, this allows you to break up clusters of broken jobs which can prevent load spikes and DB deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`, needs to be always a lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`, this allows you to break up clusters of broken jobs which can prevent load spikes and DB deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`
```

- `retry_falloff_multiplier` provides the capability to increase the retry period with each retry attempt, defaults to `1`

> - `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`, needs to be always a lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`, this allows you to break up clusters of stuck jobs which can prevent load spikes and DB deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`AbstractQueuedJob.retry_falloff_multiplier`](api:Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob->retry_falloff_multiplier) provides the capability to increase the retry period with each retry attempt, defaults to `1`
- [`AbstractQueuedJob.retry_falloff_multiplier_variance`](api:Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob->retry_falloff_multiplier) acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`, needs to be always a lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`, this allows you to break up clusters of stuck jobs which can prevent load spikes and DB deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`
```

> - `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`, needs to be always a lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`, this allows you to break up clusters of stuck jobs which can prevent load spikes and DB deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` acts as a modifier for `retry_falloff_multiplier`. It needs to always be a lower value compared to `retry_falloff_multiplier`. This allows you to break up clusters of stuck jobs which can prevent load spikes and database deadlocks from forming, defaults to `0`
```

These examples show you how it works:

```php
namespace App\Jobs;

use Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob;

class MyJob extends AbstractQueuedJob
{
    // Linear retry pattern
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 1;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0;

> 
>     // First retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
>     // Second retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
>     // Third retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
>     // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Linear retry pattern:
    // First retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
    // Second retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
    // Third retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
    // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 1;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0;
```
Putting the comment above the code makes it super clear that the comment is for THIS code, not for the code below.
Please update the other examples as well.

    // Exponential retry pattern
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 2;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0;

    // First retry attempt - Retry after 10 minutes
    // Second retry attempt - Retry after 20 minutes
    // Third retry attempt - Retry after 40 minutes
    // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 80 minutes

    // Retry pattern with spread
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 1;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0.2;

    // First retry attempt - Retry after 8 to 12 minutes
    // Second retry attempt - Retry after 6.4 to 14.4 minutes
    // Third retry attempt - Retry after 5.1 to 27.4 minutes
    // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 4 to 38.4 minutes
}
```

#### Cluster breaking configuration

This configuration is recommended for dealing with clusters of stuck jobs.

> A fixed retry delay typically doesn't help as all jobs will likely be retried in roughly the same time which will repeat the situation that caused the initial cluster to form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fixed retry delay typically doesn't help as all jobs will likely be retried at roughly the same time which will repeat the situation that caused the initial cluster to form - and therefore increase the chance of the job getting stuck again.
```

> This scenario is best handled by introducing random delay which spreads the jobs and thus eliminates the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This scenario is best handled by introducing random delay which spreads the jobs and thus eliminates the cluster.
```

> PHP config

Reviewer 2: probably not needed
```suggestion
```

> It's recommended to refine this configuration in case you have multiple types of jobs that have significantly different priority.

Reviewer: > It's recommended to refine this configuration in case you have multiple types of jobs that have significantly different priority.

I'm not quite sure what this means - can you please reword it? I _think_ it might mean something like

> you should tailor this configuration to your specific job's needs, e.g. more important jobs should be retried more often

or maybe

> You might want to refine this configuration over multiple iterations - i.e. if multiple jobs are still getting stuck and failing around the same time, you might want to increase the `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` to break up the cluster

```php
namespace App\Jobs;

use Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob;

class MyJob extends AbstractQueuedJob
{
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 5;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 1.2;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0.2;

    // First retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 19.6 minutes
    // Second retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 27.4 minutes
    // Third retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 38.4 minutes
    // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 53.7 minutes
    // Fifth retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 75.2 minutes
}
```

Global configuration is available on the `QueuedJobService` class:

> - `job_retry_sentinel` this represents separation of job retry and job processing mechanism to avoid potential edge cases, defaults to 1 minute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `job_retry_sentinel` represents separation of job retries and job processing mechanism to avoid potential edge cases, defaults to 1 minute
```

> Global configuration is available on the `QueuedJobService` class:

Reviewer: Is this part of the cluster stuff above, or separate from it? Please give it an appropriate heading level since this feels like the heading for a subsection.

> - `job_retry_limit` how many broken jobs can be retries per a single execution of `runQueue()`, set to `0` to disable job retries, defaults to `0` (globally disabled), recommended safe value is `10`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `job_retry_limit` how many broken jobs can be retried per a single execution of `runQueue()`, set to `0` to disable job retries, defaults to `0` (globally disabled), recommended safe value is `10`
```

- `job_retry_status` defines the job status transformation map, this allows to customise how the job statuses change during a job retry, defaults to `New` for `Broken` jobs and `Waiting` for `Paused` jobs

Overall, it's recommended to keep the broken job retries configuration applied to only those jobs that needed it.

> Incorrectly configured broken jobs retry may cause queue job processing delays.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Incorrectly configured broken jobs retry may cause processing delays.
```

> These examples show you how it works:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example use cases where different configuration for broken job retry might be helpful:
```

Not sure here though as the examples below don't offer guidance how to cover it, so perhaps the section could be left out completely?

> Incorrectly configured stuck jobs retry may cause processing delays.

Reviewer: NOTE TO SELF:
Revisit this part of the docs after fully reviewing the code.

> Example use cases where different configuration for stuck job retry might be helpful:

Reviewer: Like above, please give this an appropriate heading level.

We have a "Scheduled publish job" which is high priority, and we want to get it executed as close to the scheduled time as possible.

> This job must not be executed after certain period of time, let's say four hours, as it could lead to unintentionally publishing draft content which was produced while job was waiting for a retry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This job must not be executed after a certain period of time, let's say four hours, as it could lead to unintentionally publishing draft content which was produced while job was waiting for a retry.
```

We have a "CDN flush job" which is low priority, and we want to get it executed ideally as soon as possible but having it delayed even for days is not a big deal.
It's still worthwhile executing let's say even after two days of waiting as the CDN cache expiry is six days.

Both of these job types are aiming to avoid clustering.

> For "Scheduled publish job" we want to avoid clustering around DB deadlocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For "Scheduled publish job" we want to avoid clustering around database deadlocks.
```

    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 2;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0;

    // Retry pattern with spread
    // First retry attempt - Retry after 8 to 12 minutes
    // Second retry attempt - Retry after 6.4 to 14.4 minutes
    // Third retry attempt - Retry after 5.1 to 27.4 minutes
    // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 4 to 38.4 minutes
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 4;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 1;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0.2;
}
```

#### Cluster breaking configuration

This configuration is recommended for dealing with clusters of stuck jobs.
A fixed retry delay typically doesn't help as all jobs will likely be retried at roughly the same time which will repeat the situation that caused the initial cluster to form - and therefore increase the chance of the job getting stuck again.

This scenario is best handled by introducing random delay which spreads the jobs and thus eliminates the cluster.

> You might want to refine this configuration over multiple iterations - i.e. if multiple jobs are still getting stuck and failing around the same time, you might want to increase the retry_falloff_multiplier_variance to break up the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might want to refine this configuration over multiple iterations - i.e. if multiple jobs are still getting stuck and failing around the same time, you might want to increase the `retry_falloff_multiplier_variance` to break up the cluster.
```

Higher priority jobs should have lower offset and spread compared to lower priority jobs to minimise waiting times to process high priority jobs.

```php
namespace App\Jobs;

use Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob;

class MyJob extends AbstractQueuedJob
{
    // First retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 19.6 minutes
    // Second retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 27.4 minutes
    // Third retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 38.4 minutes
    // Fourth retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 53.7 minutes
    // Fifth retry attempt - Retry after 10 to 75.2 minutes
    private static int $max_retry_attempts = 5;
    private static int $initial_retry_delay = 600;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier = 1.2;
    private static float $retry_falloff_multiplier_variance = 0.2;
}
```

#### Global settings

Global configuration is available on the `QueuedJobService` class:

> - `job_retry_buffer` represents separation of job retries and job processing mechanism to avoid potential edge cases, defaults to 1 minute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `job_retry_buffer` determines the amount of time (in minutes) before stuck jobs will become eligible for automated retry processing to avoid potential edge cases, defaults to 1 minute
```
Borrowing language from the config property's PHPDoc

> - `job_retry_limit` how many stuck jobs can be retried per a single execution of `runQueue()`, set to `10` to disable job retries, defaults to `0` (globally disabled), recommended safe value is `10`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `job_retry_limit` how many stuck jobs can be retried per a single execution of `runQueue()`, set to `0` to disable job retries, defaults to `10`
```

> - `job_retry_status_map` defines the job status transformation map, this allows to customise how the job statuses change during a job retry, defaults to `New` for `Broken` jobs and `Waiting` for `Paused` jobs

Reviewer: Please use API links for these configuration property references like in https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-queuedjobs/pull/467#discussion_r2501205470

> - `job_retry_status_map` defines the job status transformation map, this allows to customise how the job statuses change during a job retry, defaults to `New` for `Broken` jobs and `Waiting` for `Paused` jobs

Reviewer: Please include an example of setting `job_retry_status_map` (even just the default values will be fine) as it's not 100% clear from reading this documentation.

Overall, it's recommended to keep the stuck job retries configuration applied to only those jobs that needed it.

> Incorrectly configured stuck jobs retry may cause processing delays.

Reviewer: This section is about global settings - should this comment be further up? Maybe just about "Basic configuration"?

Maybe even use a callout block, e.g
```md
> [!WARNING]
> Overall, it's recommended to keep the stuck job retries configuration applied to only those jobs that needed it.
> Incorrectly configured stuck jobs retry may cause processing delays.
```

which displays like this:

> [!WARNING]
> Overall, it's recommended to keep the stuck job retries configuration applied to only those jobs that needed it.
> Incorrectly configured stuck jobs retry may cause processing delays.
